Add auth:checkRights (#36)
kuzzleio/sdk-jvm: doc/1/controllers/auth/check-rights/index.md

---
code: true
type: page
title: checkRights

> description: Checks if the provided API request can be executed by this network connection, using the current authentication information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Using the current authentication information, verify if the network connection can execute the required API request.
```

---

# checkRights

<SinceBadge version="Kuzzle 2.8.0"/>
<SinceBadge version="auto-version"/>

> Checks if the provided API request can be executed by this network connection, using the current authentication information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the current authentication information, verify if the network connection can execute the required API request.
```
Heck why not..

:::: tabs
::: tab Java

```java
public CompletableFuture<boolean> checkRights(
  ConcurrentHashMap<String, Object> requestPayload) throws NotConnectedException, InternalException
```

| Property | Type | Description |
|--- |--- |--- |
| `requestPayload` | <pre>ConcurrentHashMap<String, Object></pre> | Contains a [RequestPayload](/core/2/api/payloads/request) |

## `requestPayload`

> The [RequestPayload](/core/2/api/payloads/request) must contains at least the following properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [RequestPayload](/core/2/api/payloads/request) must contain at least the following properties:
```

- `controller`: API controller
- `action`: API action

---

## Returns

> Returns a boolean telling whether the provided request would have been allowed or not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a boolean indicating whether the provided request would have been allowed or not
```

## Usage

<<< ./snippets/check-rights-java.java

:::
::: tab Kotlin

```kotlin
 fun checkRights(
      requestPayload: ConcurrentHashMap<String, Any?>): CompletableFuture<Boolean>
```

| Property | Type | Description |
|--- |--- |--- |
| `requestPayload` | <pre>ConcurrentHashMap<String, Any?></pre> | Contains a [RequestPayload](/core/2/api/payloads/request) |

## `requestPayload`

> The [RequestPayload](/core/2/api/payloads/request) must contains at least the following properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [RequestPayload](/core/2/api/payloads/request) must contain at least the following properties:
```

- `controller`: API controller
- `action`: API action

---

## Returns

> Returns a boolean telling whether the provided request would have been allowed or not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a boolean indicating whether the provided request would have been allowed or not
```
